ArC: initial documentation of CDI pitfalls with reactive programming (#40620)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/cdi-reference.adoc

}
----

[[reactive_pitfalls]]

> == CDI Pitfalls with Reactive Programming

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Pitfalls with Reactive Programming
```

CDI is a purely synchronous framework.
Its notion of asynchrony is very limited and based solely on thread pools and thread offloading.
Therefore, there is a number of pitfalls when using CDI together with reactive programming.

=== Detecting When Blocking Is Allowed

> The `BlockingOperationControl.isBlockingAllowed()` method allows detecting when blocking is allowed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `io.quarkus.runtime.BlockingOperationControl#isBlockingAllowed()` method can be used to detect whether blocking is allowed on the current thread.
```

> When it is not, and you need to perform a blocking operation, you have to offload it to another thread.

Reviewer: Maybe we should give an example of a blocking operation or add a link to Quarkus/external docs?

Author: Maybe best to do that in the source code listing? Say, just `Thread.sleep(5000);`?

Reviewer: Yes, maybe with a comment like:
```java
// Write data to the filesystem, use JDBC, call a REST service, etc.
Thread.sleep(5000);
```

Author: Done.

}
----

[[reactive_pitfalls]]
== Pitfalls with Reactive Programming

CDI is a purely synchronous framework.

> Its notion of asynchrony is very limited and based solely on thread pools and thread offloading.

Reviewer 2: is that the case for async event/observers ?

Author: Yes. That's the only place in CDI where asynchrony is mentioned, and it's based on thread offloading.
